[ Silence ]
>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep
on to help uncover
what really happened.
>> It felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
>>George Noory: Hello,
I'm George Noory
and welcome to Beyond Belief.
Just how well do you take
care of your own health?
Our next guest is an
expert on doing that.
Let's take a look.
>>Dr. Joel Wallach:
The pharmaceutical
industry drives things.
You see, there's no law
requiring doctors to cure people
and there's a cure available.
There's no law requiring doctors
to prevent diseases in people
and the prevention is known.
Now, if it were my way, if I
were the US Surgeon General,
the first thing I
would do is pass a law.
You see, as this agency,
they can make a law.
They don't even need to go to
Congress and get it approved.
They can just make a law.
Well, I would make a law
by fiat, I would make a law
that said that if there is
a disease that is curable
with anything, whether it's an
herb or a drug or a nutrient,
if it's curable and the
physician just treated the
symptoms as opposed to curing
it, there's a cure available,
I would put him in jail
for class A felony
for 25 years to life.
And by the time you did it to
the first thousand physicians,
the rest of them start
recommending the cure, right,
because they wouldn't
want to go to jail.
>> Noory: Pretty strong
words. My next guest,
of course, Dr. Joel Wallach.
Joel, welcome to Beyond Belief.
>> Wallach: Thank
you so much, George.
I appreciate your hospitality.
>> Noory: You were pretty tough
there in that little video clip.
>> Wallach: Well, I'm
getting tougher.
And of course, doctor is the
only people who can kill,
injure and infect 15
million people each year,
not even get a parking
ticket and they get to walk.
This is from the Center
for Disease Control.
This is February 5th, 2007,
15 million people are killed,
injured, infected each year in
doctors' workplace, hospitals
and clinics. They don't
even get a parking ticket.
>> Noory: Over prescriptions,
things like that?
>> Wallach: Prescriptions,
infections.
They don't even wash their
hands after they go potty.
Doctors kill more people
each year in America
than the Mafia has
in a thousand years.
>> Noory: You know, I
have done stories, Joel,
on surgical procedures
where they sew the person up
and they'd left in
instruments, gauze,
you name it, horror stories.
How does that happen?
>> Wallach: Well, the doctor
has other things on his mind.
OK? He is thinking about
chasing the nurse as opposed
to taking care of the patient.
He was out last night drinking.
He's thinking about his golf
date with his golf buddy.
And the horror stories for me
are the ones where women go
in to have babies and they
cut their arms and legs off.
>> Noory: What?
>> Wallach: Yes, this
happens hundreds of times here
in America and he thought
it was a different patient.
He thought it was a patient
with flesh eating strep and--
>> Noory: Oh my God.
>> Wallach: -- the crime,
George, is that the nurses
and the other doctors in
the room never say anything.
They say, "Doctor, wait a
minute, what are you doing here?
This here-- lady is
here for delivery,
not getting their arms
and legs cut off."
And this happens every year
and these same doctors remain
in those hospitals and
in those clinics forever.
>> Noory: You've got an
interesting background,
very varied.
You've got into sciences,
Bachelor of Science degree.
You then got your DVM, doctor
of veterinary medicine.
But you understand nutrition
and I mean your goal now is
to help people, and I'm sure you
still help and love animals too,
but how did you make
that transition?
>> Wallach: Well, as
you point out George,
my background is
a little unique.
I do have a degree in
agriculture but my major is
in animal husbandry
and nutrition
where we've made rations,
came up with diets for animals
to increase their performance.
More eggs per pound of feed,
more milk per pound of feed,
more meat per pound of
feed, more longevity,
eliminate every birth
defects you can think of.
And then I became a veterinarian
and as a sophomore
veterinary student,
I was already a graduate
student 'cause I have my degree
in agriculture.
I found the first case of
a mass die-off in America
from pollution and wrote it up.
I got it published in
scientific journals.
It was quite the thing, went
around the world several times.
And then I was in Africa
for Marlin Perkins,
from the old Mutual--
Wild Kingdom.
>> Noory: From Saint Louis.
>> Wallach: Yes, yes, sir.
And he was working
with Barry Commoner
who is an environmentalist
who ran for--
>> Noory: Commoner?
>> Wallach: -- common cause.
Yes, yes. And so I was catching
white rhino to save them
from extinction and
between Barry Commoner
and Marlin Perkins, they
came up with a grant from NIH
to study pollution as a
contributing cause or the cause
of degenerative diseases, heart
disease, cancer and this sort
of thing and Perkins says
I know the perfect guy.
He wrote the first paper in
a mass die-off for pollution.
They pulled me out of Africa
and be the pathologist
on the project.
In 1977, I discovered after
doing 20,000 autopsies
in that one project, 10 million
chemistries all published
in a book, 1200 pages,
called the "Diseases
of Exotic Animals".
It's in the Smithsonian
Institute,
it's a national treasure.
I discovered it at
the Emory University
at the Yerkes Primate
Center in Atlanta, Georgia,
the first nonhuman case of
cystic fibrosis and determined
that it was actually a
nutritional deficiency during
pregnancy as opposed to
genetically transmitted disease.
And I pointed this
out and they fired me.
>> Noory: They fired
you because of that?
>> Wallach: Yes.
They said, "Wallach, you
must be sniffing goo.
Everybody knows it's
a genetically
transmitted disease."
I said, "No.
You tell me how many monkeys
you want with cystic fibrosis,
I can make them for any year."
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: And they say, "Well,
you're not in any contract.
You're fired."
So that's when I
went back to school
and became a primary
care physician,
as an h-pathic physician.
Practiced for 12 years learning
how to use veterinary treatments
on my human patients.
In fact, affectionately,
the first treatment I used
on patients because of
arthritis was Dr. Wallach's pig
arthritis formula.
And it was so successful
I've branched off
into every other disease
you could think of
and of course today
through Youngevity we do it
over 900 different diseases.
>> Noory: How do we here in
the United States, doctor,
how do we compare
to other countries?
>> Wallach: We don't
do very well.
We spend more money
each year, George,
than all the other nations
in the world combined,
not more than any nation,
more than all nations.
There's 204 nations registered
in the United Nations.
We spend more money
for healthcare than all
of them combined, and we rank
92nd in health on those,
there's 91 other nations--
>> Noory: That's horrible.
>> Wallach: You wouldn't keep
on with any other industry
with statistics like that.
We rank 60th in longevity.
There's 59 other nations whose
peoples live longer than us.
And God forgive us, George,
we rank 41st when it comes
to live births and first month
survivability of our babies.
And I have to wag on my
finger the OBGYNs 'cause
in the animal industry,
we've eliminated every birth
defect you can name just
by putting nutrition
in the female food
before they conceive.
>> Noory: Right, we're not
doing that now, are we?
>> Wallach: No.
Food chemistry, very well
respected journal came
out in April of 2012 and said--
and they looked at the top
eight commercial baby formulas
or Enfamil, Similac, Gerber
and these sorts of things--
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Wallach:-- is they
contain less than 20 percent
of the nutrients needed
by babies, vitamins
and minerals, less
than 20 percent.
Now, George, dog foods
have 100 percent,
chicken food has 100 percent.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> Wallach: And laboratory
rat food has 100 percent
and our babies have
less than 20 percent.
And this is why we
have ADD, ADHD, autism.
This is why we have a plethora
of diseases there are in kids.
Deafness, congenital deafness
is caused by deficiency
of magnesium-- oh, excuse
me-- manganese, excuse me,
manganese during pregnancy.
Manganese during pregnant--
if every woman got manganese,
there'd never be another
baby born deaf, as simple.
Muscular dystrophy is a simple
nutritional deficiency during
pregnancy very similar
to cystic fibrosis.
I actually gave Jerry Lewis this
information three years ago.
He took it to the Muscular
Dystrophy Foundation
and they fired Jerry Lewis,
that's why he's not doing
the telethon anymore.
>> Noory: I was wondering
what happened after all that.
I mean, he went out with
a ball of no glory--
>> Wallach: Exactly.
>> Noory: It was just
poof, he was gone.
>> Wallach: They
hid him, George,
because he brought
them the cure.
So now we have another
little foundation started up
and we are curing these
kids right, left and center
for muscular dystrophy.
We're filming them
every two weeks.
Younger ones who are say
three years old who lay there
like worms 'cause they have no
strength in their back and hips
and their legs, within
three weeks on out program,
they're out riding a tricycle--
>> Noory: And this is
just with nutritional--
>> Wallach: Yes sir.
>> Noory:-- supplements,
looking at that.
>> Wallach: Yes, it's not a
genetically transmitted disease
as the medical doctors
want you to believe.
Of course, this is not
unusual for the medical system.
You go back thousands
of years ago
when doctors thought everything
was cause by evil spirits.
And that theory lasted
for 5000 years.
And I don't think the genetic
theory is going to last 200.
>> Noory: When you
started investigating this,
how did you know how to
match what supplement,
what nutritional supplement
with the affliction?
>> Wallach: Well, George, the
beauty of being a veterinarian
and a physician, I can
read both languages.
And in veterinary medicine,
we don't have health
insurance for animals.
It's the biggest...
>> Noory: Yet.
>> Wallach: This is
not going to come.
That's-- If we already use
health insurance similar
to human health insurance.
A hammer would cost
you 500 dollars,
just pay for the healthcare.
If we were to use a human
healthcare type system
for animals, a dozen eggs
would cost you 250 dollars.
And so what we learn
to do is just prevent
and reverse these
diseases with nutrition.
And this is why I'm so strong
about telling people, look,
if I were the US
Surgeon General,
if there's a cure available,
if doctors didn't cure
you, they go to jail.
And this is because in the
animal industry we do cure
these diseases.
Macular degeneration, I
had a doctor jump up in one
of my meetings and say
I was a liar when I said
that I could reverse
macular degeneration even
if they'd been blind 8, 10 years
and, you know, legally blind.
And I said, "I'll tell you
what, sir, if you give me 12
of your patients that
are legally blind,
'cause he's an eye doctor.
>> Noory: OK.
>> Wallach: And if I
had 8, 10, 20 years,
if I could reverse half of
them, say 6 out of the 12,
they're reading 20/20 in 90
days, would you apologize?
So if you could do two,
I'll apologize, or one.
Yeah.
>> Wallach: And so he-- the
next day he brought me a box
with 27 charts and I took
them all and in 90 days,
25 can read 20/20 without
eyeglasses, the other two--
>> Noory: Amazing.
>> Wallach:-- with eyeglasses,
but they were all
legally blind--
>> Noory: Did you
make him a believer?
>> Wallach: Well, he
actually made me a CD called
"Seeing is Believing" we
sell millions of them a year.
>> Noory: Just because of that?
>> Wallach: Yes,
that was his apology.
He actually made a CD for me.
>> Noory: Has he become a
booster of your idea now?
>> Wallach: Yes, sir.
Yes, sir. He is a
champion of our program.
>> Noory: The FDA of
course really comes
down on those people who make
claims that we can do this.
We can cure this.
Has that been tough for you?
>> Wallach: Well, I'm kind
of a military minded guy.
And so, I like to take it to
the enemy so to speak as opposes
to just being defensive.
And so, I actually either as a
co-plaintiff, or a plaintiff,
sole plaintiff, I've
sued the FDA eight times.
Prevailed every time
in federal court.
Nobody else have ever
done that before.
And one of which of
course was folic acid
for neural tube defects,
like spina bifida.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: And another
one was for omega-3's
for preventing stroke,
thrombotic stroke
and pulmonary embolism,
pulmonary thrombosis
>> Noory: Fish oil, isn't it?
>> Wallach: Exactly.
But we knew that in the animal
industry for hundreds of years
but you couldn't say it
for the human industry.
So I actually sue them to be
able to say it for the human.
So now everybody has on their
label 'cause we didn't do it
just for our company, we did
it for humanity so to speak.
The same thing with selenium
and we're getting ready
to sue the FDA over
trans fatty acids.
And of course for our
selenium one, I can now say
that by supplementing with 200
micrograms of selenium you can--
you can reduce your risk
of certain types of cancers
and it supports the
body's ability
to make anticancer substances
where before I sue them
we couldn't do that.
And we're getting ready
in preparing to sue them
over the trans fats thing
which I've been screaming
about since the '70s
'cause it's not cholesterol
that causes clogged arteries
and heart attacks and strokes.
It's never been cholesterol.
I wrote a paper on--
>> Noory: So is it
the inflammation?
>> Wallach: Yes, sir, you hit
the nail right on the head.
Very, very good.
You know more than doctors.
'Cause they think it's
still the cholesterol.
>> Noory: I study this stuff.
>> Wallach: Yeah.
Well, it's obvious
that you do a good job
and that's why I'm here.
You know, I really
appreciate everything you do.
And in 1971, I compared the
obstructive artery disease
in vegetarians, vegans
and meat eaters.
It was always the vegans
that had the worst
obstructive arteries
because of the oxidation,
the oils in...
>> Noory: Go figure.
>> Wallach: Right.
Grains and salad dressings and
cooking oils, the inflammation.
And so now, the FDA is saying,
"Oh hold, wait a minute,
we got to get all the
trans fats off the market."
Well, again, we've been
saying that for 40 years.
>> Noory: When you put together
a special regimen for somebody
to attack some kind of
problem as you were talking
about the macular degeneration,
does it always work
that quickly?
>> Wallach: Yes, sir.
For instance, a congestive
heart failure
which is the most common cause
of heart death in America,
very commonly, you
know, people we put
on heart transplant list
are certainly multiples
in medications.
It was discovered in the
late 1700s to be a deficiency
of a single vitamin by a
Japanese naval surgeon.
And I have actually reversed
and cured, obviously cured,
'cause this is curable,
congestive heart failure,
with a single vitamin.
>> Noory: What was that vitamin?
>> Wallach: It is really exotic.
It's thiamine, vitamin B1.
>> Noory: That's it?
>> Wallach: That's it.
And so, the thing that we
always have to be concerned
about though, George,
is that all vertebrates,
whether you're a humming bird
or a human being or an elephant,
all vertebrae's require
90 essential nutrients.
And people they hear,
"Oh, that thiamine work
for congestive heart failure."
And they run to the grocery
store, to the healthy store
and they'll buy a thiamine
and they'll take it
and it won't work.
They said, why it didn't work.
That's because nothing in
nature works in a vacuum.
All vertebrates require
90 essential nutrients,
60 minerals, 16 vitamins,
12 essential amino acids
and 3 essential fatty
acids, and they all work
as co-factors with each other.
>> Noory: They all
jumpstart each other.
>> Wallach: Exactly.
And one won't work
without the other.
And it's kind of interesting.
Linus Pauling, when he received
his first Nobel Prize in 1954
for doing the research into
the nutrition of genes,
it's very profound statement,
the nutrition of genes
and the nutrition of enzymes,
in his acceptance speech he says
you can trace every illness,
every disease and every
sickness to a mineral deficiency
because genes and
enzymes will not work
without mineral supplements.
>> Noory: And we don't get that
out of our daily food, do we?
>> Wallach: We don't,
and the reason
for that is we've changed
everything that we had done
for thousands and thousand
of thousands of years
and we didn't make
up the difference.
At 3 o'clock in the afternoon,
it is my favorite thing,
thank you for asking it.
At 3 o'clock in the afternoon,
Monday, September 4th,
1882 everything changed.
Prior to that, human
beings were supplementing
with minerals everyday.
They weren't doing
it in the capsule
but what they were doing
was putting the wood ashes
from their fireplace and
from their wood stove
and their fire pits
into the gardens
and wood ashes, they're
not ashes--
>> Noory: Which is
a fertilizer, right?
>> Wallach: Right, wood
ashes are not ashes, George.
It is, AKA ashes.
It is really plant minerals
of the tree sucked
up out of the ground.
And you throw these minerals,
AKA wood ashes into the garden
and the corn and the tomatoes
and the sweet potatoes and peas
and beans suck them all up.
And you ate that food, you
got your mineral supplements
everyday through that fashion.
Well, 3 o'clock in the
afternoon, Monday September 4th,
1882 on Pearl Street, New York,
in the front page news story
in every newspaper in the world,
Thomas Edison pulled the switch
on the first commercial
electric generating plant.
And in 10 years--
>> Noory: So, you
didn't have that.
>> Wallach: Exactly right.
Within 10 years, every
town and every city
in the industrialized
world converted from wood
as the universal
fuel to electricity.
And what happened to our source
of mineral supplementation?
Went away.
And nobody--
>> Noory: And never replaced it.
>> Wallach: They
never replaced it.
And that's why we're getting
sicker and sicker and sicker.
And that's why, George,
more profoundly,
the top 20 longevity cultures
on earth are all third
world illiterate countries
and cultures that have
no doctors, no insurance,
government or private,
no hospitals or clinics,
and they have 40 times the
minerals we do
because they're still putting
their wood ashes in the garden.
>> Noory: Ain't that amazing?
It's amazing.
>> Wallach: Truly.
And this is all documented.
I have a new book coming
out called "Epigenetics"
and it's all documented
in this book.
>> Noory: That's
coming out in March.
>> Wallach: In March of 2014.
>> Noory: Well, that is good.
Joel, what's our biggest
killer in this country today?
>> Wallach: The number one cause
of death in America is doctors.
>> Noory: Still doctors.
>> Wallach: Still
doctors, yes sir.
Number two is--
>> Noory: Well, there are
good doctors, right, they try.
>> Wallach: Well, I
beg to differ with you.
>> Noory: Really, you
think they're all bad?
>> Wallach: Well, when you
go back in the history,
just even in modern
history, you've heard
of eugenics of course.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Wallach: And this is actually
Charles Darwin's cousin,
Francis Galton that came
up with that, and he wanted
to breed people like they did
animals 'cause he had big
estates with cattle and
he would take the cow
to produce the most milk and
breed it with the best bull
and so they get more calves
that produce more milk.
And they would eat the ones
who didn't do a very good job.
And so they came up with dating
clubs for the tall, blue-eyed,
blond-haired people to
date tall, blond-haired,
blue-eyed people, and
that was in the 1830s
and then comes Hitler of course.
And it was kind of interesting
to me that the biggest segment
of the Nazis after
the Nuremberg trial
that were hung were the
doctors, the Nazi doctors.
>> Noory: Like the Mengeles.
>> Wallach: Yes.
>> Noory: People like that.
>> Wallach: But they
had scores of them.
They were hung for
their war crimes.
There was only a handful
of generals 'cause most
of them were just following
the orders from above.
They got put in jail
for 50 years or life.
Some of the generals are getting
out of jail now and they're
in their 90s, who did
terrible things but they were
under orders to do them.
But the doctors,
they were the ones
who invented the
terrible things.
And so, they were the biggest
group of people in the Nazi army
that were hung during
the Nuremberg trials.
So doctors have been bad
boys for a long time.
>> Noory: Is it because
they just don't know.
>> Wallach: Well,
that's the problem.
Let's say they didn't
know, let's say they--
>> Noory: Give the benefit.
>> Wallach: Give them
the benefit of the doubt
and say they're ignorant,
George.
Have you ever seen a doctor
burn his license on the steps
of the courthouse and says,
"I cannot do this anymore 'cause
we're killing too many people."
>> Noory: No.
>> Wallach: "I'm going to
devote my life to being a nurse
and Lambaren, Congo,
you know, like Dr. Schweitzer.
>> Noory: Sure.
>> Wallach: Yeah.
>> Noory: And all
those days go on.
>> Wallach: And so
doctors never do that.
They just-- it's kind of like
when somebody cuts the arms
and legs off a woman who goes
in to have a baby,
nobody says anything.
And so the way to solve the
problem is to not use them,
which means people have to
take more responsibility
and learn how to take
care of themselves,
and this is what we
do with Youngevity.
>> Noory: You have a website set
up called criticalhealthnews.com
which has been set up for
people to get ongoing stories
and to help themselves
to get through.
Can people self diagnose, doc?
>> Wallach: Well, absolutely.
We have a book which you can get
through the website
called "Let's Play Doctor".
Everybody has said
that at some type
in their life, let's
play doctor.
>> Noory: I did when
I was like nine.
>> Wallach: There you go.
Yeah, beginning your
puberty drives you
to want to be a doctor.
And this book tells people how
to do their own self
examination,
how to do their own diagnosis,
how to do their own physicals
for about 3 dollars
and 50 cents.
They can go to any pharmacy
and get the same test strips
that doctors use
for your urine test
in the office and blood test.
You can make your own
diagnosis for blood pressure.
diagnosis for diabetes.
You don't need to have
colonoscopic exams.
You can do what's
called occult blood test,
cost you 5 bucks for that.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Wallach: There are no risk
of puncturing your intestines
and killing you like
they did Andy Rooney.
They killed Andy--
>> Noory: Well, let me
tell you a real quick story
and we'll get into this.
I have a friend of
mine in Saint Louis,
very well known ophthalmologist,
eye doctor and he decided--
you know, when you're past 50,
time to go in for colonoscopy.
And he went to his best
friend who was another doctor
who performed the
colonoscopy on him.
In the process, they punctured
his intestine and they went,
"Oh my god, what are we
going to do about this?"
Some kind of a shock set in.
And they literally had
to remove his intestine.
They took it out of his body
and bathed it for three
or four days, put it back
in, he's never been the same,
never been the same
just from that routine,
so called routine checkup.
>> Wallach: Well, George,
the statistics are,
according to the US
Department of Health
and Human Service Office
of Inspector General,
this was November 2011,
they said each month
in America medical doctors kill
15,000 seniors over the age
of 65 who go in for these
routine minor medical procedures
and screening test.
That's 180,000 a year are killed
because of this very thing.
Andy Rooney was killed by that.
>> Noory: Thank God, for
virtual testing these days.
>> Wallach: We can do your
own colonoscopic exam with a
so called blood test
for 5 bucks.
>> Noory: Where do you get that?
Out of a drugstore or-- ?
>> Wallach: Yes, sir.
You just go in without
prescription, get it,
just talk to the drug store,
"I want an occult blood test."
And when you wipe your bottom,
you take some soiled toilet
paper and put the poop
on the gel and if it turns
a color, you get an
unseen blood.
>> Noory: Well, that sounds--
>> Wallach: Nasty.
>> Noory: Nasty little job.
>> Wallach: Yeah,
but it will save you
from getting your
intestines punctured
and dying of peritonitis.
>> Noory: Can you believe that?
He was healthy and now he's not.
>> Wallach: Yes.
>> Noory: And he's life
was changed dramatically
because of this.
>> Wallach: And do the
doctor even take him
out to dinner and say I'm sorry?
>> Noory: No, that
has not happened.
He's contemplating whether he
should sue for malpractice,
but it's his friend and he
doesn't know what to do.
>> Wallach: He should sue him.
>> Noory: You know I--
>> Wallach: There should be
consequences for these things.
>> Noory: Horrible situation.
>> Wallach: Well, doctors again,
according to the CDC operate
in the wrong person
or the wrong body part
as often as 40 times a week.
>> Noory: How does that happen?
>> Wallach: Because--
I mean a guy goes in
to have a leg removed
and they take the wrong leg off.
>> Wallach: Well, he
gets paid twice then,
the doctor is paid twice then.
>> Noory: And then they have
to take the other
leg off still, right?
>> Wallach: Yes.
So they get paid twice because
the insurance always paid
for the mess up as well as--
>> Noory: I mean
who wants a check
when your leg has been
cut off-- the wrong one?
I mean how do they even
pay the doctors twice?
How do they make that mistake?
>> Wallach: Well, that's
because their mind is not
on what they're doing, OK?
They come in there-- again,
they're more interested in--
>> Noory: I would
check, double check,
double check, triple check.
>> Wallach: Well, that's because
you're a righteous person.
Most doctors again
are not standing
on the courthouse steps
burning their license and say,
"I'm not going to do, I
cannot do this anymore.
As a fellow human being,
I cannot do this anymore.
I have to find out why we're
making so many mistakes."
There's not a single
doctor that's done that.
>> Noory: It's frightening.
>> Wallach: Yes.
That's frightening.
>> Wallach: And so the only
recourse the American people
have is to not use the
system which again--
and of course you have all
these various groups out there,
there's the preppers
and doomsday preppers
and the survivalist, right, and
the Amish and people like this
who do their own thing.
And these are the people, again,
may look out there May of 2013,
there was a cover article,
a little bitty brown girl
from Costa Rica, she was like
two years old, cute little girl
in the cover, says this
child will live to be 120.
How can they say that, when you
read the article they've been
doing it for thousands of years?
>> Noory: Exactly.
>> Wallach: And they're
illiterate,
they're third world cultures,
they have no doctors, no private
or government insurance,
no hospitals, no clinics.
They have 40 times a
hunger levels we do.
And part of it is they
don't get killed as often
as we do by the doctors.
>> Noory: I try to tell
my kids that you got
to take care of yourself.
Without your health,
nothing else matters.
You let your children
down, their kids down,
money doesn't matter, nothing
matters unless you have
your health.
And there are so many sick
people out there, Joel,
and I know when I go to the
phone and said coast to coast
and we just talk about
specific medical situations,
the phone lines are just buzzing
with people who are not healthy.
It's got to change.
>> Wallach: Well, we're
the number one obese nation
in the world.
Now we spend more money
for healthcare than a lot
of the other nation
in the world combined
and the only thing we can
brag about being number one
in the health industry is we're
number one in obesity.
With all their lap banding
and the gastric bypass,
stomach stapling and all
the drugs, all the diets,
all the exercise, we're still
the number one obese nation
in the world.
So, how can that be?
Well, it's 'cause
our theory is wrong.
Obesity is not overeating,
it's not the lack of exercise,
it's actually a simple
nutritional deficiency.
A nutrition that-- the symptom
of this particular nutritional
deficiency drives people
to have cravings and
binge eating behaviors.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: Cribbing in
animals, it's called munchies
in people and it's very simple.
We get people to lose a half
a pound or two pounds a day.
They keep it off as long as
they're staying on...
>> Noory: Of real fat, right?
>> Wallach: Oh, yes
sir, yes sir.
And they keep their muscle
mass, they lose the fat.
We get people lose 140
pounds in 100 days,
60 pounds in 50 days,
very simple.
Again, you have to supplement
with these nutrients.
You take the basic 90 again
and then we have the
secret sauce, we call it.
This drives the weight loss.
And then they maintain
a weight loss.
The magic of our
system is, George,
you never gain the weight back.
>> Noory: I remember I
had a high glucose level.
And the doctor said to me, stay
off white bread, try to stay off
as many carbs as you
can like potatoes
and things like that and pastas.
And sure enough,
those levels did drop.
They did drop.
How do you get high glucose
levels in the first place?
How does that happen?
>> Wallach: Well, there's
two pieces and number one,
improper diets and human beings
are never meant to eat grain.
They weren't.
This is something
that came along
because of a survival thing.
When things went bad--
>> Noory: You have
to eat something.
>> Wallach: You had
to eat something
and you could store grains
back in thousands of years ago
without refrigeration
and canning.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: And so, it
was a survival thing.
But then it became, oh, you have
to eat grain all three meals,
you have to eat your snacks
and desserts are all
grains and that's too much.
But these sorts of things occur
because of a simple mineral
deficiency like diabetes,
it's caused actually by a
single mineral deficiency
that we've known
it for 70 years.
So we can get rid of diabetes.
It was actually the head of
the Department of Agriculture
who figured it out 70 years ago.
And the medical system
never picked
up on it because it's secure.
And you take these 90
essential nutrients,
you'd throw in the secret sauce
that it has these minerals in it
and they take their fasting
blood sugar every morning.
And so before they
medicate themselves,
they have to adjust
their medication.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: And usually
within two days
or two weeks throughout
their medication--
>> Noory: They start dropping.
>> Wallach: Yes, sir.
Well there-- and
certainly within a month,
they're an ex-diabetic
and as long as they stay
on the program, they'll
never have diabetes again.
>> Noory: I had heard cinnamon
helps reduce your blood sugar.
>> Wallach: Cinnamon can
drop your blood sugar
but it doesn't solve the
basic mineral deficiency.
Cinnamon is a plant
drug that actually--
and of course we like to use
it because it's very dramatic.
It will drop your blood
sugar very rapidly.
But it's a plant medicine.
It's a plant drug.
It doesn't solve the
mineral deficiency.
It's kind of like--
>> Noory: OK, doesn't
fix the problem.
>> Wallach: Doesn't fix the
problem, it manages the symptom.
And the problem with
lowering your blood sugar
when you have diagnosed
diabetes, George,
is that elevated blood sugar is
not the disease, it's a symptom.
And so you're still going to die
of diabetes even though you
manage your blood sugar.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: And so
that's the problem.
You're still going to go
blind, get your legs cut off
and die 25 years
early even though--
well, I don't know what
happened to Aunt Ruthie,
she used to keep her
blood sugar under control,
why did she die of a stroke?
>> Noory: How big of a problem
is that in this country,
type 2, type 2?
Tom Hanks has it now.
>> Wallach: Well,
type 2 diabetes--
well, if you have any contact,
well, you should call him
because we can fix him.
>> Noory: I've got producer
Tommy is working on that,
trying to get him on the
show just to talk about some
of his work but you're
absolutely right
in how dramatic would
that be if you got it--
got him off, you know,
drugs for example.
>> Wallach: Very easy,
we can do it very easily
and of course this
is a self help thing.
And again in the book,
"Hell's Kitchen" and the book
"Let's Play Doctor" we teach
people what to do to get rid
of their type 2 diabetes.
And actually between
obesity and type 2 diabetes,
it's going to financially
break America, particularly
with the affordable healthcare
act is going ton break America
with just those two diseases.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Wallach: Because the
rate is growing very rapidly
because the theories of the
medical system were incorrect.
They believe that type 2
diabetes is a genetically
transmitted disease.
It's not. It's a simple
nutritional deficiency.
And they believe that
obesity is a genetically
transmitted disease.
It is a simple nutritional
deficiency.
I have another book called
"Rare Earths: Forbidden Cures",
chapter four, just that
whole chapter just tells you
everything you need
to know about obesity.
The book, the "Hell's Kitchen"
tells you everything you need
to know about obesity.
And everybody in America, they
just did these simple things.
We can get rid of both
obesity and type 2 diabetes
in two months, three months.
>> Noory: It's common sense.
>> Wallach: Yes.
And we can make America
disease free,
just like we did
the animal industry.
>> Noory: Dr. Joel Wallach's
website, criticalhealthnews.com.
Doc, thanks so much for
being on Beyond Belief.
>> Wallach: Well,
thank you so much
for your hospitality, George.
I appreciate you.
>> Noory: Take care of yourself.
It's critical to take
care of yourself.
Nobody else will.
You'd go to a doctor, they
don't try to fix the problem,
you got to fix it for yourself,
criticalhealthnews.com.
Thank you for watching
Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]